docs: JSON viewer documentation (#1243)
grafana/logs-drilldown: docs/sources/viewing-json-logs/_index.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/explore/simplified-exploration/logs/viewing-json-logs/
description: Learn how to view JSON formatted logs in Logs Drilldown.
keywords:
  - Logs
  - JSON
  - Formatting
menuTitle: Viewing JSON logs

> title: Viewing JSON logs

Reviewer: Title MUST match the first heading
```suggestion
title: Logs Drilldown JSON viewer
```

> weight: 400

Reviewer: Let's move this down below Labels and Fields in the TOC for now.
```suggestion
weight: 550
```

---

# Logs Drilldown JSON viewer
You can easily view and interact with your JSON formatted logs  using the Logs Drilldown JSON viewer. This view will help you read your JSON style logs, and filter through them to make your related dashboards more relevant and focused.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
Logs Drilldown JSON Viewer is an experimental feature. Engineering and on-call support is not available. Documentation is either limited or not provided outside of code comments. No SLA is provided. To use this feature, you must be running Loki 3.5.0 or later.
{{< /admonition >}}

## Viewing JSON logs

To interact with the JSON view, select the **Show Logs** button for your service in Logs Drilldown. 

{{< figure alt="JSON Table viewer with selector and include exclude highlighted" width="500px" align="center" src="/media/docs/explore-logs/show-logs.png" caption="Select the 'Show Logs' button on your service" >}}

> From there, select **JSON** in the format menu in the top right toolbar. This will show your logs in a structured, collapsable way, enabling you to sort, filter, and otherwise adjust your log data in the visualisations for your logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From there, select **JSON** in the format menu in the top right toolbar. This will show your logs in a structured, collapsible way, enabling you to sort, filter, and otherwise adjust your log data in the visualizations for your logs.
```

Author: Vim really needs a spellchecker 😆 thanks @gtk-grafana !

> From there, select **JSON** in the format menu in the top right toolbar. This will show your logs in a structured, collapsible way, enabling you to sort, filter, and otherwise adjust your log data in the visualizations for your logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, select **JSON** in the format menu for the Logs. This will show your logs in a structured, collapsible way, enabling you to sort, filter, and otherwise adjust your log data in the visualizations for your logs.
```

{{< figure alt="Show Logs button on a JSON logging service" width="900px" align="center" src="/media/docs/explore-logs/json-viewer.png" caption="The JSON viewer" >}}

## Filtering log lines with the JSON view

> Users can include and exclude specific log data from their visualizations by selecting the **Include/Exclude** icons next to a given label. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can include and exclude specific log data from your visualizations by selecting the **Include/Exclude** icons next to a given label. 
```

> For example: Given a set of logs from am API request service, One can select the **exclude** button next the "method" field with status "GET". This  will result in the Log Volume dashboard showing only requests of other method types (DELETE/PATCH/POST/PUT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: Given a set of logs from am API request service, you can select the **Exclude** button next the `method` field with status "GET". This  will result in the Log Volume dashboard showing only requests of other method types (DELETE/PATCH/POST/PUT).
```

> To include them again, simply remove them from the **Fields** filter above the Logs Volume visualization. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To include filtered log data again, remove the excluded data from the **Fields** filter above the Logs Volume visualization. 
```

> ## Supported log types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported JSON log types
```
